## Traumatic injury mortality in the Gaza Strip, 7 October 2023 to 30 June 2024: a capture-recapture analysis

### Description of input dataset and R analysis scripts
October 2024

## General description
This repository contains data and R scripts needed to replicate the above analysis.
The  datasets required are found in the `\input` folder. Every row in dataset `2.gaza_list_capture_analysis.xlsx` contains an individual record of a deceased person, as contained in one of three independent lists generated by the study. The dataset in the `\input` folder `2.gaza_list_capture_analysis_missing.xlsx` includes those reported as missing (not reported as dead) by survey respondant. 
All the code is found in the `\code` folder. 
Download R and RStudio (see download links on [https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/]). While R is sufficient to run the analysis, it is recommended to instead run the scripts from the RStudio interface.
`\output` folder will include the output tables and graphs that will be saved automatically. 

## Description of each R script
* `1.figure1.R` figure 1- Cumulative number of deaths reported by the MoH over time, by source. Numbers of reporting hospitals are shown to provide context.
* `2.gaza_capture_recapture_code.R` capture recapture analyses. 
* `3.bespoke_functions.R` contains functions needed for different steps in the analysis.
* `4.figure2.R` figure 2- percentage distribution of listed deaths by month of death, age, and sex within each list.
* `5.figure3.R` figure 3- overlap among the three lists.
* `6.figure4.R` figure 4- annualised age- and sex-specific traumatic injury mortality rates per 1,000 population between 7 October 2023 and 30 June 2024; age-specific rate ratios (for both sexes combined) are shown to the right of the plot, with the pre-war (2022) mortality rates as the reference.
* `7.sup_figure1.R` figure 1- deaths reported by the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project (ACLED), by governorate and month; percentage of buildings destroyed by governorate and month based on UNOSAT and the Gaza 2017 census of buildings.
* `8.sup_figure2.R` supplementary material figure 2- estimated number of traumatic injury deaths by month adjusted for age and sex; estimated percentage of traumatic injury deaths that were not captured by any of the three lists, by month; shaded area indicates the 95% confidence interval.

